docs/executors.md, before:

# Executors

## Local

The local executor declares that an executable will be run on the same machine
from which the launch script is invoked.

```python
xm_local.Local(
    docker_options=xm_local.DockerOptions(...),
)
```

## Vertex AI (Cloud AI Platform)

The `Vertex` executor declares that an executable will be run on the Vertex AI
platform.

The Vertex executor takes in a resource requirements object.

```python
xm_local.Vertex(
    xm.JobRequirements(
        cpu=1,  # Measured in vCPUs.
        ram=4 * xm.GiB,
        T4=1,  # NVIDIA Tesla T4.
    ),
)
```

```python
xm_local.Vertex(
    xm.JobRequirements(
        cpu=1,  # Measured in vCPUs.
        ram=4 * xm.GiB,
        TPU_V2=8,  # TPU v2.
    ),
)
```

As of June 2021, the currently supported accelerator types are:

* `P100`
* `V100`
* `P4`
* `T4`
* `A100`
* `TPU_V2`
* `TPU_V3`

### Vertex AI Specification

The Vertex AI executor allows you specify a remote image repository to push to.

```python
xm_local.Vertex.Spec(
    push_image_tag='gcr.io/<project>/<image>:<tag>',
)
```

## Kubernetes (experimental)

The Kubernetes executor declares that an executable will be run on a Kubernetes
cluster. As of October 2021, Kubernetes is not fully supported.

The Kubernetes executor pulls from your local `kubeconfig`. The XManager
command-line has helpers to set up a Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster.

```bash
pip install caliban==0.4.1
xmanager cluster create

# cleanup
xmanager cluster delete
```

You can store the GKE credentials in your `kubeconfig`:

```bash
gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name>
```

### Kubernetes Specification

The Kubernetes executor allows you specify a remote image repository to push to.

```python
xm_local.Kubernetes.Spec(
    push_image_tag='gcr.io/<project>/<image>:<tag>',
)
```

Commit message:

Add support for using NVIDIA GPUs in local runs
PiperOrigin-RevId: 466943358
Change-Id: I5b218209c0ede526d7992f239870b3c16ab2a9e0
GitOrigin-RevId: b91b4663b4804d72d3d09e7feae12571a07effbb

docs/executors.md, after:

# Executors

## Local

The local executor declares that an executable will be run on the same machine
from which the launch script is invoked.

```python
xm_local.Local(
    docker_options=xm_local.DockerOptions(...),
)
```

Making GPUs available to local containers is possible by requesting
the `local_gpu` resource through a requirements object.

```python
xm_local.Local(
    xm.JobRequirements(local_gpu=1)
)
```

Note: Only local NVIDIA GPUs can be requested for the `Local` executor through
the resource requirements object. Any other requirements will be ignored.

## Vertex AI (Cloud AI Platform)

The `Vertex` executor declares that an executable will be run on the Vertex AI
platform.

The Vertex executor takes in a resource requirements object.

```python
xm_local.Vertex(
    xm.JobRequirements(
        cpu=1,  # Measured in vCPUs.
        ram=4 * xm.GiB,
        T4=1,  # NVIDIA Tesla T4.
    ),
)
```

```python
xm_local.Vertex(
    xm.JobRequirements(
        cpu=1,  # Measured in vCPUs.
        ram=4 * xm.GiB,
        TPU_V2=8,  # TPU v2.
    ),
)
```

As of June 2021, the currently supported accelerator types are:

* `P100`
* `V100`
* `P4`
* `T4`
* `A100`
* `TPU_V2`
* `TPU_V3`

### Vertex AI Specification

The Vertex AI executor allows you specify a remote image repository to push to.

```python
xm_local.Vertex.Spec(
    push_image_tag='gcr.io/<project>/<image>:<tag>',
)
```

## Kubernetes (experimental)

The Kubernetes executor declares that an executable will be run on a Kubernetes
cluster. As of October 2021, Kubernetes is not fully supported.

The Kubernetes executor pulls from your local `kubeconfig`. The XManager
command-line has helpers to set up a Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) cluster.

```bash
pip install caliban==0.4.1
xmanager cluster create

# cleanup
xmanager cluster delete
```

You can store the GKE credentials in your `kubeconfig`:

```bash
gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name>
```

### Kubernetes Specification

The Kubernetes executor allows you specify a remote image repository to push to.

```python
xm_local.Kubernetes.Spec(
    push_image_tag='gcr.io/<project>/<image>:<tag>',
)
```
